in this lesson i want to explore the
benefits and usage of azure advisor
and this is a service it's free that's
just built into azure really designed to
give you guidance about certain key
aspects of azure usage i can access it
through the portal or through the api to
get the various recommendations and this
is probably easier to understand just by
seeing it so if we jump over to the
portal
and we're going to scroll down and go to
down here
advisor
and what it's going to do is break down
these recommendations into five areas
we can see we have areas related to cost
i.e we have a certain resource
provisioned and maybe we should be
shutting it down maybe it should be a
different size maybe it should be a
different sku
things about security maybe we've got
public facing ip addresses that aren't
secured
things about
reliability maybe we can do things to
better ensure the continuity and
availability of our services
just following best practices around
operational excellence and then
performance what can we do to speed up
our actual applications
and what i would recommend is maybe once
a week we can go and check in on these
things so i have nothing around cost
right now
i can go to security so this is actually
integrating things like azure security
center which uses azure policy with a
predefined list of things it's looking
for
and it's telling me things that i should
do to improve the security of my
environment
likewise reliability hey we see you're
using a standard disk we recommend you
use premium disk which have a higher sla
therefore would improve my reliability
and operational excellence don't have
anything there
likewise performance
but you'll notice it's giving me a link
down here see a list of all of the
possible recommendations so if we jump
over to that
here we can see the things it might tell
us
about performance
things it might tell us about
reliability
things it will tell us about security
and this is again coming from azure
security center so that's going to be a
lot more focused around integrating with
azure security center
things about operational excellence
things about cost optimization so we can
actually go and see all the different
recommendations it may actually give
and so it really is a great place to
just go and check into and i can see all
my recommendations
i could even create alerts
about certain things i can have a
recommendation digest which is a report
that will summarize all of the active
recommendations available
there's even an advisor score which
based on all of the different
recommendations and what ones i have
addressed i get a certain score to say
well how good am i doing
following those various recommendations
so this is just something i would use
to hey get some azure guidance on those
different aspects of the environment
to try and make sure i'm being as
optimal as possible
in my azure environment